the incident that spurred me to make
this video today was learning that Andy
wore ski has ceased to be vegan who is
Andy wore ski doesn't really matter he
is a comedian and he presents himself as
an idiot
he identifies as an idiot if you like
him as part of his act but also like
most people entertainment I think he's
sincerely aware that he's not too bright
Andy wore skis conversion to veganism
was very public and very closely
documented because he chose to film
himself when he was learning about
veganism when he was watching
documentaries the children animals were
executed he filmed himself having a
debate with a guy called the vegan
revolution on his podcast where they did
a sort of radio show format and through
Q&A through Socratic method if you like
questioned his reasons for eating meat
and he was questioning the vegans
reasons for not eating meat and by the
end of the dialogue he said okay I'm
convinced you know I decided before we
had this discussion that if I if I if I
didn't have good reasons and if you did
have compelling reasons that I would
make the switch that would become vegan
so he did so I think a lot of people at
least a few thousand people probably
mostly people in England who follow that
podcast filled some sort of emotional
connection of this guy's conversion he's
not one of the really high-profile
famous people to convert to veganism but
it's interesting example and then you
know um I guess also we all get a sense
of hope for the broader popularity of
veganism in the future the idea that if
any idiot can do it maybe my own uncle
can do it maybe that guy at work who's
such a jerk and makes my life miserable
maybe he can become vegan one day too
when I make these videos I try to frame
the issues in terms that will still be
meaningful and interesting if someone
should stumble on this video five years
from now ten years from now at some
point in the future and I don't want the
video to be bogged down too much in the
sales of a short term controversy that
won't matter to anyone
maybe even five months from now any
idiot can be vegan and that's
fundamentally a very good thing if
veganism was only something accessible
to intellectuals it would be doomed and
many of the famous people who become
vegan who are famous for being models
actors for being beautiful or talented
in some way they're not intellectuals
many of them are not too bright and
while many of them become vegan for
reasons that they manage to state
intelligently sometimes for reasons of
compassion sometimes for reasons of
trying to lose weight of course very
often their stupidity shows when they're
then making excuses for why they ceased
to be vegan but again you know veganism
has to be open to an embracing of idiots
if it's gonna be a mass movement or even
it's gonna be a subculture with I don't
know a whole 1% of the population to its
name if someone who who both acts a fool
and really is a fool becomes vegan it
reminds us of this strength and any it
can become vegan anyone can become vegan
veganism is not just for an elite it's
not just for certain kinds of
intellectuals it's for everybody
maybe there's some viability to it then
the flip side is when someone like that
ceases to be vegan you get to hear just
how idiotic their reasons are now the
other deep issue that this highlights
this shine some light on is the fissure
between vegans and so-called meat
reducers to say a lot about this many
vegans have drawn attention to the
almost hypocritical intensity with which
meat reducers are hated by vegans this
basically means that vegans tend to show
an intense antipathy towards people who
are not vegan but who claim to kind of
sort of do 90% of vegan as people who
say well I'm reducing my meat
consumption as much as I can
I only meet once in a while this sort of
thing and for a vegan perspective this
is especially irritating what do you
mean you're reducing your meat
consumption as much as you can a hundred
percent is as much as you can you know
eliminate a hundred percent the optimal
amount of cholesterol in your diet is
zero therefore have a zero cholesterol
diet the optimal amount of animal
suffering to be caused by your diet is 0
therefore eat zero animal products come
on get on get on side a small number of
local people like Tobias Lee and art I
may well be mispronouncing his name I've
chatted several times to buy a side
Tobias if you get out of seeing this a
small number of vegans like Tobias have
taken the devil's advocate course a
saying look we as vegans need to be more
encouraging towards people who are only
meat reducers people who are bad vegans
people who are semi vegan laughs vegan
cheating vegan people who only kind of
sort of reduced the amount of meat in
their diet and don't go the whole way to
becoming vegan and Tobias gives
different reasons for this primarily he
points out that the real viable future
of veganism the the capacity for
veganism to have a mass social effect to
have a massive ecological effect is
going to have to come about through a
hard core of vegans influencing a larger
number of soft core vegans then Tobias
takes the analysis to the next step the
next stage of a life cycle analysis and
he points out that look the material
basis for vegans living in the world is
not going to be created by a very small
percentage of people who are very
intensely active vegans vegan activist
or zealous vegans in reality when you go
to the supermarket and they have soy
milk the market that's produced for
economically is mostly people who are
lactose intolerant
here in Europe that is definitely true
by the way we have a range of soy yogurt
soy pudding and so on and you know
numbers behind that that industry does
not exist for the tiny tiny minority of
Germans who are vegan I just mentioned I
am exhausted in case I look exhausted
um I flew from Western Canada to Germany
and I am very much struggling with
jetlag right now I had one of those days
where I went to the gym three times in
three short sessions that's part of
trying to force myself to be awake and
adjust to extreme jet lag so in this way
tobias argues it's really a very
positive thing for shall we say the
throughput of veganism as a social
movement that learned your numbers of
people be encouraged you merely become
meat or do Saeng we really become semi
vegan and quasi vegan and so on even
though hardcore vegans may lay the
groundwork for soft core vegans those
soft core vegans in turn will lay the
groundwork for yet more hardcore vegans
and so on so there's a positive
reciprocating loop going on here so
that's an interesting analysis and
suggestion that it's an interesting
approach to the puzzle that Tobias has
and his his fundamental suggestion
coming out of it is for vegans to stop
regarding people who are merely me
reducers as their enemies I haven't
foreshadowed this but when I spoke to
Tobias about it I actually disagree with
him strongly for a very different reason
Tobias is approached I feel is biased by
his own position as a professional full
time vegan advocate he does this for a
living so he's surrounded by vegans all
the time he's going to events
conferences related to veganism and
that's nothing like my life and that's
nothing like the lives of 99.9% of
vegans well so if we're asked question
why do ordinary vegans feel such intense
hatred antipathy and disgust for people
who are fake vegans people were merely
me producing well even in the city I
come from I currently live in Victoria
Canada west coast of Canada if I take
the time out of my life out of my busy
schedule to go to a vegan event maybe I
can do that once a month in reality it's
much less off than the last month
because I worked very hard and I'm a
full-time University student I'm trying
to learn Japanese trying to find a whole
new career path I have all kinds of
challenges about life if I take the time
to go and show up at a vegan event I am
there to meet other vegans and we all
have to deal with a mix of social
instincts and anti-social instincts but
I can vividly remember going to one
event of that kind and you know I sat
down and eat some food and you chitchat
with people and the guys sitting on one
side of me
he actually organized the event and I
could see that he was wearing leather
and he identified as vegan he said if
him and his girlfriend oh well we we
were leather I guess you know we sort of
said I guess we're not really feet she
organized the event he's somebody I
don't have a lot in common with
naturally and in terms of chitchat
Tremec friends I'm making a big effort
to try to socialize with him but now I
feel like why are you here are you
really here for the same reasons I mean
are you for the right reasons do I want
to make the sacrifice of my time and
money and effort to come to this event
and get to know you when the one thing I
thought we had in common the one element
of common ground ethically politically
turns out to be false has it happened
the guy sitting on the other side of me
he was really the type of human being I
try to avoid spending time with it's not
worth describing what type of guy he was
I think he was over 60 years 65 and he
seemed to me like a complete scumbag and
you know he told me a bit about himself
in his life he was wealthy but
he was in every way the type of person I
would normally never sit down and have a
meal with and never talk to you or if I
happen to have a casual conversation
with just say okay
nice to meet you goodbye and long but
I'm at this event to meet other vegans
and he's I presume he's vegan because
he's there sitting next to me so I'm
really making an effort to ignore the
things about him that offend me and that
I dislike and put those aside and put on
a happy face and socialize and get to
know this guy and you know then he
mentions that he's not singing at all he
was actually talking about traveling
around the world you know I've also
traveled a lot around the world and he
just starts mentioning eating a snake
meat and bear meat eating exotic me was
trying say well what why are you telling
me this was this before you were vegan
like to you now we'll look back on this
regretted like what cuz he was boasting
about these wonderful travels you know
the guy was still 100% a bear eating
snake eating meat eating [ __ ] and
time is short I'm not trying to hear it
I pretty much got up and left the event
then weren't that many people that meet
I did say hi to some other people but
you know I feel my time has been wasted
I feel I've been deceived and you know I
feel like I've compromised cuz this guy
already he was pretty morally repugnant
to me and I'm trying to find the common
ground to be nice to him and build
something pretty to them and he's a fake
vegan they took two different examples
of fake vegans in one event and I'm not
I mean I'm not like Tobias I don't go to
a lot of these advances is not the way I
can afford to spend my time so with no
ill will vegans who are trying to lead a
meaningful life are gonna have these
kinds of hostile encounters with people
who are not really vegan people who are
fake vegan and so on
and even though from a kind of detached
outside perspective from a global
perspective the type of analysis device
presents looking at a flowchart of okay
this percentage the population is meat
reducing this percentage population is
vegan and here are the economic and
social effects of that over time that is
not the perspective from which we live
our day-to-day lives the struggle to
lead a meaningful life the struggle to
make friends as a grown adult basically
once you're out of high school to try to
form a social network with people who
really have something meaningful in
common with you and we're really willing
to work with you to get something done
whether that's political activism or
starting a business you know really have
guanxi is that the Chinese say it's a
struggle and you do not want to devote
your time to doing that with people who
don't accept the fundamental premise the
ethical premise of veganism if it's not
a matter of principle for you then
you're not a vegan even though
objectively I can recognize somebody who
eats ninety percent less meat of course
they're doing something good for the
planet of course they're doing something
good for the animals that it was like
good for themselves for their own health
but they're not vegan and yeah the
mutual hatred the mutual want sympathy
is real and it's inevitable partly just
due to the scarcity of time I might have
a lot of other stories actually I
remember a very good-looking Chinese
woman started hitting on me on the
internet once and like I'm not offended
but I could tell right away she was
somebody who would never be a friend of
my normally someone I wouldn't have
anything you come with she was Chinese
from mainland China but you know she had
a lot of photographs of herself with
designer purses and photographs of
herself flying to Paris to buy designer
purses so
given that you know per online identity
I can tell right away it's very unlikely
this person is going to be my friend or
even that this person is going to have a
single conversation with me but she
seemed really interested she kept
writing to me and again she was
objectively very good-looking I wasn't
interested I wasn't trying to to get a
new girlfriend and the one thing that
made me take the time to reply to her
and say okay I'm gonna make the effort
is that her profile listed her as vegan
somewhere it said you know of about me
vegans something like this anyway only
after a little while you know talked
over a few days did I directly ask her
about being vegan and at that point she
said oh no um I need meat oh I must have
added that to my profile during the
summer when I was vegan for a few months
you know I just went to block user that
was if it's not always the case there
are plenty of people eat meat who are my
friends in real life who you know I know
and I try to find common ground with try
to quad with but in many of these social
contexts without even getting into real
political activism as an example the
only thing we have in common the only
thing that's gonna start building that
bridge is that you identify as vegan and
I identify as being it and now we're
gonna try to take it from there
the other thing that's highlights for me
that at ox bar on this channel and I've
talked about in writing before is that
you know compassion doesn't work and II
wore ski became vegan out of compassion
you know he saw these videos and he had
a short-term reaction of compassion just
as a word and a concept in the English
language compassion is really quite
glorified it is in Buddhism too but his
philosophy in the Buddhist religion
people like to think that compassion
soles problems and it really doesn't you
know compassion is a feeling and all
feelings are fleeting and in watching
these various celebrities you know
become vegan often become passionately
if he can become advocates for veganism
and then sort of lose their train of
thought and stagger back to eating meat
or milk or eggs or whatever it is you
can see all right they were overwhelmed
with compassion at some point that had
this feeling and then it dissipates I've
commented before on this channel I'm
aware the cure for traits I have that
make me vegan are not positive character
traits of a very demanding
you know man of principle being a man of
principle does not make you a nice guy
it really doesn't does it definitely
does not make it easy to get along with
quite quite the contrary the type of
character people consider nice and good
in our society is exactly a sort of
flexible adaptable somebody who's
willing to to go whichever way the wind
blows that's what people want in a
co-worker in general that's what people
want in a boyfriend or girlfriend people
want a sort of carefree adaptability in
the people in their social circles
certainly what they want in a boss the
character trait of being driven by hard
ethical commitments of being fastidious
even that word fastidious we don't think
of it as a good thing anymore 300 years
ago it was a good thing being someone
who adheres to a code of ethics even
when it's destructive to their own
interests and so on I don't think those
characters even appear in in novels
anymore it's of no interest in 21st
century
yeah and the novels that used to be full
of those characters and think they
didn't end well back in the 18th and
19th centuries tobias Leonar criticizes
this this whole frame of mind
understandably in terms of an urge for
purity and he says look vegans as a
group in pursuing this this urge for
purity they're separating themselves
from the mainstream and they're doing
something counterproductive counter to
their own interests that the urge for
purity is in effect going to block the
urge for community but again the reality
is all of us I mean if you have a job
then you probably have a workplace where
probably nobody else is vegan you know
where every day of course you're
socializing with meat eaters you
probably have a job where you have
co-workers who ridicule you and insult
you and make your life difficult because
you're vegan so of course it's not in
that sense it's really not genuine it's
not honest to talk about an urge for
purity or trying to being puritanical or
excluding yourself no but on the other
hand given that vegans are people who
suffer so much exclusion that so many so
many people and festivals and things
exclude us if you grew up as a
conventional Catholic and you became
vegan suddenly you're cut off from most
of the feasts and festivals you grew up
with suddenly in many ways you're
estranged from the family you grew up
with even if you still hang out with
them even though it's subtle you know
we're all having to negotiate that so in
the little bit of free time that we have
left that's left over by you know work
and school and these other commitments
I think vegans are trying to find a new
community trying to sort of create a new
tradition a new sense of identity
in a world that they feel excludes them
and naturally when you're starting that
process
I don't assume that you personally are
first becoming vegan when you're meeting
someone else for the first time finding
that common ground yeah it's really
natural and inevitable that you have as
a hard-and-fast criteria either you're
really vegan or you're not either it's a
hundred percent or it's zero when the
question is not about what is going to
impact Nestle corporation in planning
its next quarter and how many products
they make for lactose intolerant people
and vegetarians and vegans the question
is how can I lead a meaningful life now
how can my values my political
engagements my commitments you know do
something positive for me here and now
you want to find something positive in
it even if that's just having a circle
of friends or you know if you're a
business person maybe you're sitting
there thinking every day I'm only gonna
put up with this situation at the office
for as long as they have to but boy if I
knew just a couple of other hard-working
smart vegans I would start my own
company or I would you know taking a
different measure so I could work with
them very natural to want to do that you
know and of course for little things
like activism and you know if you want
to start a vegan magazine or website
isn't as pal simian says every vegan is
out looking for a crew you know first
thing they're looking for and you know
again it's probably because you feel
alienated from her cut off from the crew
you had before